M toome kotlin functions (#1981)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/functions/functions.md

```pseudo
fun functionName(argument) {
  bodyline2
}
```

### Return Statement

If there is a return statement in the function, then there must be also a return type. The return statement is defined by the keyword `return`. Lines after the return statement will not be executed.

```pseudo
fun adding(num1: Int,num2: Int): Int{
  var sum = num1 + num2
  // Return statement, returns the variable sum
  return sum
  // println will not execute
  println("Nice job")
}
```

## Single Line Function

The single line function can be written only if the function has a single expression.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int): Int{
  return side1 * side2
}
```

Curly brackets `{}` and `return` can be removed and by adding an equals sign `=`, we get the single line function.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int): Int = side1 * side2
```

The compiler can infer the return type so we can also remove the return type declaration.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int) = side1 * side2
```

## Function Literals

> A function becomes a function literal when we assign it as a value. There are two types of function literals: "lambda expressions" and "anonymous functions".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function becomes a function literal when it is assigned as a value. There are two types of function literals: "lambda expressions" and "anonymous functions".
```

---
Title: 'Functions'
Description: 'A function is a reusable block of code that can be called from elsewhere in the program.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: 
  - 'Android'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Kotlin'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Functions** are an essential part of any Kotlin program. Functions are a reusable part of code that can be called in any part of the program. The Kotlin program has to start with the `main()` function, or there will be an error. `fun` is used to define a function in Kotlin, but there are also predefined functions like `println `and `print`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Functions** are an essential part of any Kotlin program. Functions are a reusable part of code that can be called in any part of the program. A Kotlin program has to start with the `main()` function, or there will be an error. The `fun` keyword is used to define a function in Kotlin, but there are also predefined functions like `println` and `print`.
```

> ## Function `main()`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The Main Function
```

Reviewer 2: generally we don't use backticks in headers

Function `main()` is the entry point to a Kotlin program and is required. The `main()` function is meant to include the code of the program and is not called anywhere. The code should be between the `main()` function curly brackets `{}`.

```
fun main() {
  println("Hello World")
}
```

## Creating Functions in Kotlin

User defined functions start with the `fun` keyword, followed by the function name, the parameters (if there are any), and the function body which is enclosed in curly braces.

```pseudo
fun functionName(arguments): return type {
  body

>   return statment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return statement
```

}
```

- `fun` is used to define a function.

> - The `functionName` is used to call the function in the program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `functionName` is used to call the function in the program.
```

> - `Arguments` have to be in the parentheses. Arguments are pieces of information fed to the function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `arguments` have to be in the parentheses. Arguments are pieces of information fed to the function.
```

> - `Return type` declares the type of a returning value. It is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `return type` declares the type of a returning value. It is optional.
```

> - The `body` contains the code to be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `body` contains the code to be executed.
```

> - `Return statement` returns the value of the function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `return statement` returns the value of the function.
```

### Arguments

Arguments are data passed to the function. They must have a name and data type. Between the argument name and data type must be a colon `:`. The arguments are separated by comma `,` .

```pseudo
fun functionName(argumentName: dataType, argumentName2 : datatype){
  body
}
```

```pseudo
fun sample(num1: Int,num2: Int){
  println(num1 + num2)
}
```

> When calling the function, `arguments` can be put in their assigned spot or specified by name. By specifying the name the `arguments` do not need to be in the same order as in the function header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When calling the function, `arguments` can be put in their assigned spot or specified by name. If the arguments are specified by name they do not need to be in the same order as in the function header.
```

```pseudo
fun main(){
  println(sample(3,5))
  println(sample(num2=5, num1=3))
}
```

Arguments can have a default value. It is assigned with the equals sign `=`.

```
fun default(name: String = "Kotlin"){
  print("Hello $name")
}
```

Default arguments can be changed when calling a function.

```
fun main(){
  default("Java")
}

> ///output
> ///Hello Java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Output
// Hello Java
```

```

### Return Type

The return type expresses the returning value type. Including the return type is optional. The return type is entered after the parentheses and a colon `:`. By default the return value is `Unit`. `Unit` means there is no returning value.

```pseudo
fun functionName(argument): return type {
  body
}
```

```
fun sample(name: String): String {
  return "Hello " + name
}
fun main(){
  print(sample("Tom"))
}

> ///output
> ///Hello Tom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Output
// Hello Tom
```

```

### Function Body

The function body contains the code for the function. It must be between curly brackets `{}`. The function body is indented, except for a single line function. The opening curly bracket `{` is at the end of the function header and the closing curly bracket `}` is below the last line of the function body.

```pseudo
fun functionName(argument) {
  bodyline2
}
```

### Return Statement

> If there is a return statement in the function, then there must be also a return type. The return statement is defined by keyword `return`. Lines after the return statement will not be executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If there is a return statement in the function, then there must be also a return type. The return statement is defined by the keyword `return`. Lines after the return statement will not be executed.
```

```pseudo
fun adding(num1: Int,num2: Int): Int{
  var sum = num1 + num2

>   //Return statement, returns the variable sum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Return statement, returns the variable sum
```

  return sum

>   //println will not execute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // println will not execute
```

  println("Nice job")
}
```

## Single Line Function

The single line function can be written only if the function has a single expression.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int): Int{
  return side1 * side2
}
```

Curly brackets `{}` and `return` can be removed and by adding an equals sign `=`, we get the single line function.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int): Int = side1 * side2
```

The compiler can infer the return type so we can also remove the return type declaration.

```
fun area(side1: Int, side2: Int) = side1 * side2
```

## Function Literals

A function becomes a function literal when we assign it as a value. There are two types of function literals: "lambda expressions" and "anonymous functions".

### Lambda Expressions

A lambda expression is a short function between curly braces `{}`. The `return` is replaced by `->`. Adding `return type` is optional because the compiler can infer it from the type interface.

```
variable name = {Lambda Expression}

fun main() {

>   //Lambda Expression

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Lambda Expression
```

  val adding = {num1: Int, num2: Int -> num1 + num2 }

>   //executing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Executing
```

  println(adding(1,2))
}

> //output:
> //3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Output
// 3
```

```

### Anonymous Function

An anonymous function is assigned as a variable, `fun` comes after equals sign `=`. It has no name, which is why it is called anonymous. 

> - Option One: After the variable name is the argument types in parentheses `()` then `->` and the return type. This is followed by the equals sign `=` then the `fun` keyword, arguments in parenthesis, the return type, and the single return statement in curly braces `{}` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Option One: After the variable name is the argument types in parentheses `()` then `->` and the return type. This is followed by the equals sign `=` and the `fun` keyword, arguments in parenthesis, the return type, and the single return statement in curly braces `{}` .
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Option Two: After the variable name is an equals sign `=`, then the `fun` keyword, followed by the arguments with argument types in parentheses `()`, followed by `:` and the return type, followed by a single return statement in curly brackets `{}`.

```
fun main() {

>   //Option One

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Option One
```

  var addingOne: (Int, Int) -> Int = fun(num1, num2): Int { return num1 + num2 }

>   //Option Two

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Option Two
```

  var addingTwo = fun(num1: Int, num2: Int): Int { return num1 + num2 }

>   print(addingOne(1, 2))
>   print(addingTwo(1, 2))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  println(addingOne(1, 2))
  println(addingTwo(1, 2))
```

} 

> //output
> //3
> //3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Output
// 3
// 3
```

---
Title: 'Functions'

> Description: 'Functions are the most essential part of kotlin. A function is a reusable block of code that can be called from elsewhere in the program.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A function is a reusable block of code that can be called from elsewhere in the program.'
```

Subjects: 
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: 
  - 'Android'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Kotlin'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove extra line break.

```pseudo
fun functionName(arguments): return type {
  body
  return statment
}
```

- `fun` is used to define a function.
- The `functionName` is used to call the function in the program.
- `Arguments` have to be in the parentheses. Arguments are pieces of information fed to the function.
- `Return type` declares the type of a returning value. It is optional.
- The `body` contains the code to be executed.
- `Return statement` returns the value of the function.

### Arguments

Arguments are data passed to the function. They must have a name and data type. Between the argument name and data type must be a colon `:`. The arguments are separated by comma `,` .

```pseudo
fun functionName(argumentName: dataType, argumentName2 : datatype){
  body
}
```

```pseudo
fun sample(num1: Int,num2: Int){
  println(num1 + num2)
}
```

When calling the function, `arguments` can be put in their assigned spot or specified by name. By specifying the name the `arguments` do not need to be in the same order as in the function header.

```pseudo
fun main(){
  println(sample(3,5))
}

> fun main(){

Reviewer: Make this two code blocks so there's not two `main` functions in one code block.

  println(sample(num2=5, num1=3))
}
```

Arguments can have a default value. It is assigned with the equals sign `=`.

```
fun default(name: String = "Kotlin"){
  print("Hello $name")
}
```

Default arguments can be changed when calling a function.

```
fun main(){
  default("Java")
}
///output
///Hello Java
```

### Return Type

The return type expresses the returning value type. Including the return type is optional. The return type is entered after the parentheses and a colon `:`. By default the return value is `Unit`. `Unit` means there is no returning value.

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: Split this into two code blocks, separating the pseudocode example from the actual code.
